Demo Line Practice Tool
=======================

Draws other players' run paths as lines in the world, in the Momentum Mod map
you are currently playing.

Put all of these files in one folder, anywhere you like.


GETTING STARTED

  1. Start Momentum Mod and load into a map.
  2. Run wrinject.exe.
  3. Press INSERT in game.
  4. Board tab -> tick "Allow downloading" -> press "Fastest 50" -> tick the
     rows you want -> "Download". That is the map's real board, and it is where
     the demos come from. Nothing reaches the network until that box is ticked.
  5. Runs tab -> "Extract new demos". Wait. The lines appear when it finishes.

Step 5 also picks up whatever .mtv demos the game had already downloaded by
itself, so it is worth pressing even if you skip step 4. When there is nothing
new to do it reads "Re-run extractor" instead -- same button.

There is nothing else to install. Up to v0.6.1 step 5 needed Python, because it
ran through a wrpath_extract.py that shipped in this folder; as of v0.7.0 it
does not. All of it happens inside wrlines.dll, on background threads that are
marked as background work so they stay out of the game's way.


KEYS

  INSERT      show / hide the panel
  ESC         close it
  PAGE DOWN   the box at your crosshair: next mode
  PAGE UP     ... and the previous one
  HOME        "whose line am I looking at" -- off by default
  END         the corner block -- off by default

  All but INSERT are rebindable, and the About tab lists them as they are
  currently bound. They are READ, never swallowed, so if one collides with
  something you have bound the game still acts on it.


WHERE YOUR FILES GO

  Everything this creates lives in a wrlines_data folder next to wrlines.dll,
  including your settings -- those are kept in settings.cfg and survive a
  restart. It holds display settings only: no names, no SteamIDs, no record of
  what you watched, so it is safe to paste into a bug report. Delete it to go
  back to the defaults.

  Nothing is written into your game install unless you press a button that says
  it will. "Send", "local" and "watch" each copy ONE demo into Momentum's own
  replay folder so the game can play it. Every copy is recorded first, and
  "take out" is only ever allowed to delete things on that list -- the demos the
  game downloaded itself cannot be reached from here.


WATCHING A DEMO YOU HAVE FETCHED

  Press "watch" on a run. It copies a console command to your clipboard:

      mom_tv_replay_watch "momtv/local/<map>/<hash>.mtv"

  Paste that in the console and the demo plays.

  Use this rather than hunting for the run in the Downloaded tab. That tab is
  built from leaderboard rows that have a cached file, not from the folder, so a
  demo dropped in there only shows up if the game had already listed that run.
  The command takes a path and needs no list at all -- it is what the game's own
  end-of-run screen uses.

  The tool does not run the command for you. It goes on your clipboard.


IF NOTHING IS DRAWN

  Diagnostics tab. It tells you which stage did not complete, in plain words,
  and keeps a log at wrlines_data\wrlines.log.

  The most common cause is simply that no runs are ticked, or that the ones
  ticked are on a different stage of the map. "Best 3 near me" fixes that.

  One cause it cannot work around, and says so plainly: a game install whose
  folder path contains non-English characters -- D:\Игры\, or an accented
  Windows user name. This build reads files through the older Windows calls
  that cannot name such a path, so it finds no demos at all. Extraction refuses
  with that reason rather than reporting that it found nothing, and the log
  names the path. Moving the install, or this folder, somewhere spelled in
  plain ASCII is the only fix today.


IF AN EXTRACTION SEEMS STUCK

  It probably is not -- a slow demo used to hold up the progress line for every
  demo already finished. That is fixed, and there is a timeout you can set.

  Stop is not instant, and the panel says so rather than pretending. Each
  worker has to reach its next checkpoint before it can notice, which on a
  large demo can be a second or two. Nothing is lost either way: every file
  already written is complete, and the record of which demos failed is saved as
  they fail.


A FEW THINGS WORTH FINDING

  - "Colour runs by rank" (Display tab). Violet for the fastest run on each
    leg, then green through red for everyone behind it.
  - Graphs tab. Energy across a whole run, every enabled line at once, your own
    last attempt included -- and it survives failing, so you can look at what
    went wrong after it went wrong.
  - Numbers at the tops and bottoms of every arc: what a line carried through a
    ramp, and what it bought with it.
  - The strafe gauge -- PAGE DOWN to it. Green to red on how close you are to
    the most energy air strafing could physically add. It reads over two
    seconds on purpose; a faster one measures noise, and the About and Energy
    tabs show the numbers that decided that.
  - Save-loc times. The game has a "time" field for save-locs and never fills
    it in, so this keeps its own. Load a loc and your clock goes back with it.
  - "My friends' runs" on the Board tab, if you would rather chase people you
    actually know.

  Drawing a lot of lines is not free -- about 8 ms a frame at 256 of them. The
  cap is automatic now rather than a slider you had to know about; the Runs tab
  says plainly when more runs are ticked than are being drawn.


A NOTE ON FAIR PLAY

  This is an injected DLL. Momentum has no anti-cheat and is in a testing phase,
  and this reads memory rather than writing it -- it sets no cvars, runs no
  console commands, never touches sv_cheats, and writes nothing into the game
  install except the opt-in copies described above. But injected code may still
  invalidate a submitted run under the project's own rules. If you care about a
  run counting, do not have this loaded while you set it.


IF YOUR ANTIVIRUS FLAGS THIS

  It might, and it is not being stupid. wrinject.exe loads the DLL into the
  game with OpenProcess / VirtualAllocEx / WriteProcessMemory /
  CreateRemoteThread, which is also how a lot of malware loads itself, and
  there is no code-signing certificate on either file. That is also why
  SmartScreen says "Windows protected your PC" the first time: it is a
  statement about reputation, not about the file.

  What it does not do: no registry access at all, no persistence, no packing or
  obfuscation, no anti-debug, no hidden API names, no driver, no elevation.

  Every release publishes SHA256SUMS.txt and both binaries are built by a
  public GitHub Actions runner with a provenance attestation you can verify.
  Check the hash before you run it.

  If Defender quarantines it, reporting the false positive is the only thing
  that actually fixes it, and it fixes it for everyone:

      https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/wdsi/filesubmission

  Pick "Software developer" -> "Incorrectly detected as malware". The README
  has the longer version of all of this.


A NOTE ON YOUR DATA

  Nothing leaves your machine unless you press a button that says it will. There
  is no telemetry, no analytics, and no phone-home of any kind.

  Up to v0.5.1 the DLL linked no HTTP client at all and dumpbin proved it in one
  line. From v0.6.0 it does: leaderboards are fetched by the DLL itself rather
  than by the script, so WINHTTP.dll is now the sixth name in
  dumpbin /dependents wrlines.dll. What you can still check quickly:

    - It is called from ONE file, src\wr_http.cpp, which is about a hundred and
      twenty lines and does GET and nothing else. Search the source for
      "WinHttp" and that file and its header are the only two that have it.
    - The only addresses it is ever given are api.momentum-mod.org and the
      download link that Momentum's own reply contained.
    - It sends no identifier. No machine id, no account, no counter. The one
      request that names SteamIDs names your friends', because you pressed a
      button that says it will look them up.
    - It never runs on a timer, at startup, or on a map change. Only from a
      button.

  From v0.6.1 that is all of it, and from v0.7.0 there is no script left at
  all: the last thing it did was extraction, extraction reads files off your
  disk, and it now happens inside the DLL. wrpath_extract.py is not in this
  folder any more.


Source, full documentation and issues:
https://github.com/ProtoAus/demo-line-practice-tool

MIT licensed. See LICENSE.
